What follows is a review of Encountering the new Testament by Walter A. Elwell and Robert W. Yarbrough. This review is for the 20-something student that has just entered bible college in the 21st century. Many issues surround these students in their day to day study life, so interaction with this book can be key to understanding more about the New Testament. This review will give an overview of the textbook with what it has to offer the bible college student, a detailed look at how the textbook is presented to make the New Testament less daunting, a look at the strengths and weakness that are present in this textbook compared to what a bible college student may be after, and finally an assessment of the book's place amongst other textbooks in the field.

Picking up a bible for the first time can be daunting. With so many pages full of content that has context to the Middle Eastern and Roman history from 2000 years ago and more. Having a book that can walk with you to provide historical and theological understand to the words of the bible is essential to understanding what has been written in the bible. That is the focus of Elwell and Yarbrough's textbook Encountering the New Testament. When introducing the book to Students, the book writes that the purpose of this textbook is to make the encounter of the New Testament a little less daunting. The authors understand that encountering the New Testament is daunting, and through this textbook, their belief is that having an understand of the Greco-Roman world of Jesus's and Paul's day will make it easier. 

Each chapter looks long, so being a textbook, the assumption maybe that each page is full of two columns of text, giving dry context to the New Testament. This isn't the case, with  pages in the book comprising of content, with additional material throughout each chapter to engage the reader. The authors uses: 
* Chapter outlines, which provide a roadmap for the chapter,
* Chapter objectives, which gives the reader with an understanding how what they will be able to perform upon completing the chapter,
* Sidebars, which provide a relationship between what the New Testament and contemporary issues currently faced,
* Focus boxes, which add interesting and relevant application or devotional material,
* Summay,
* Key terms and glossary,
* Key people and places,
* Study Questions,
* Further reading, and
* Visual aids, .
The authors have laid out the chapters in such a way the if a reader were to become distracted through there reading, they could still be engaged in the textbook through other means throughout the chapter.

One weakness which I have mentioned in passing earlier is the dryness of the book. In recounting the historical and theological aspects of the New Testament, the authors haven't 
A book review website called Goodreads shows us the point of view that some 20-somethings have on this textbook. "This book put me to sleep on a couple of occasions" - Snorkle. There is a dryness to the textbook which in understanding that we are dealing with historical and theological information needs to be understood. The authors do put in effort to continue drawing the reader back into the book through additional material through each chapter, however, the core content will appear dry. 

One strength this textbook has it's ability provide enough understanding of the New Testament to allow the reader to continue questioning. The great thing about this book, if you  able to move past the dryness of the content, is the continual striving to get answers as a reader. Phillip J. Long, a college professor, got this in his review of the same book. He says "the student will have enough understanding of the issues at stake to move on to more advanced studies in the gospels". This is fantastic as it means the reader is prepared for the next level of studies, and being a 20-something first year bible college student, will be a great stepping stone for the years to come.

Another strength of this textbook is that is doesn't presume anything. It truly is a beginners textbook for encountering the New Testament. For me, as a 20-something, not knowing too much about the historical aspects of the New Testament, this textbook gives an understanding of the thought process that has gone into trying to bring context to each of the chapters within the bible. For example, the outline of the gospel of Matthew tell us that the authors are looking at who is writing it, when was it being written, what content is in the gospel, the theological understandings that come from the gospel, and begins to go into the critical issues that have been and are currently faced by those researching this gospel. 

Another book in the same category as Encountering the New Testament is An Introduction to the New Testament by D. A. Carson and Douglas J. Moo. There are two big comparisons when placing the books side by side:
* The size of An Introduction to the New Testament is a much large book compared to Encountering the New Testament. This may be intimidating for first year students. The size of Encountering the New Testament allows for a less intimidating review of the New Testament.
* The page content of An Introduction to the New Testament does not bring gaps or breaks in the text with additional notes like Encountering the New Testament. Again, with pages full of text, An Introduction to the New Testament does have an intimidating feel towards it as a first year student. 
I feel less intimidated by Encountering the New Testament, which makes me want to interact with it me.

Encountering the New Testament gives a first year bible college student a great introduction to the New Testament that doesn't at face value appear intimidating like other books in it's category. It provides a wealth of information, which at times is dry, but there is enough of a variety of content through sidebars, written and visual aids, further readings and questions that keep readers draw in. As a first year bible college student myself, I recommend this book to other students studying the New Testament for the first time to gain contextual understanding of the New Testament during the Greco-Roman period and for how it can relate at the start of the 21st century.
